Hello and welcome to the Knox video training series.
In this video, we'll explain how you can use Knox Asset Intelligence to troubleshoot device issues in your fleet.
Let's jump right in.
Before you proceed with this video,
you must have a valid Samsung Knox account and access to the Knox Asset Intelligence service.
You must also have active devices in your account,
and the devices must have the Knox Asset Intelligence agent application installed.
This video is intended for users already familiar with the console.
If you are new to the world of Knox Asset Intelligence, or if you need a refresher,
please review our Getting started with Knox Asset Intelligence video before continuing.
While Knox Asset Intelligence can help you quickly view and analyze your fleet's apps, battery, and network performance,
there may be times when you'll want to troubleshoot devices that are performing poorly.
Knox Asset Intelligence has several tools to help troubleshoot device issues.
IT admins can use the console to request debug logs and snapshots,
while end-users can launch the agent app to send error reports and view diagnostic information directly from their device.
Let's take a closer look at each of these features in more detail.
Diagnostic device logs provide detailed information related to a device's activities and overall operation.
Once requested, these logs can be downloaded from the console for up to 30 days by default,
after which they expire.
To request a log, go to the Devices page.
Select one or more devices from the list,
then click actions, Request diagnostics device log.
In the pop-up window, select the type of log file you want to request.
Device debug logs help you identify issues related to device apps, battery,
network connectivity, or overall operation,
while TCPdump logs help you identify network traffic issues between the device and servers.
By default, if you request a log,
users will see a notification on their device asking them to consent to the log request.
For fully managed devices, and devices operating as kiosks, you can choose to request the log silently.
This option lets you get a log from the device without requiring the user's consent.
For devices with a work profile, users will always be required to consent to the log request,
regardless of whether or not you made a silent request.
After you've chosen your log type, click CONFIRM to request the log.
An important workflow in helping IT admins troubleshoot device network related issues
is the ability to capture TCPdump logs.
As mentioned earlier,
you can request a TCPdump log by selecting a device from the Devices page
and requesting a diagnostic device log, then choosing TCPdump log.
Once a request is made, device users will receive a special prompt asking them to start capturing their TCPdump log.
On the device side, users can tap Start Capturing.
A five-minute countdown timer appears in the top right corner of the screen.
Once the timer starts,
users can try to reproduce their network errors by launching any apps
or performing any actions that led to the error in the first place.
After reproducing the error, users can tap the timer window to Stop and Send the capture,
Start over, or CANCEL the capture altogether.
After a log is captured from the device, you can view it by going to the Diagnostics page.
On the DIAGNOSTIC LOGS tab, you'll see a history of every log request made,
along with links to download the log file for offline viewing.
Click the Download link in the DELIVERY column to review the log in more detail.
Snapshots provide a detailed summary of your device's status and settings,
as well as helpful diagnostic information related to your fleet's app usage, network strength, and battery status.
However, unlike with logs, snapshots can't be downloaded for offline viewing or analysis.
They are meant to be viewed only from within the console.
To request a Snapshot, go to the Devices page,
then select a device and click ACTIONS, followed by Request device snapshot.
If the device is online, a snapshot will be collected without requiring any user interaction.
While you can manually make a snapshot request at any time,
there may be times when you'll want to schedule a snapshot to happen automatically, after an event occurs.
To schedule a device snapshot to occur after an event, select a device,
then click ACTIONS, Schedule device snapshot.
Select the snapshot criteria.
If you want to also collect an optional debug log, choose this option here, then click CONFIRM.
After a snapshot is captured from the device,
you can view it by going to the SNAPSHOTS tab on the Diagnostics page.
Here, you'll see a history of every snapshot request made,
along with links to view the snapshot report and download the optional debug log file.
If you have any scheduled snapshots pending,
you can click the MANAGE SCHEDULED SNAPSHOTS button to review, modify, or delete these requests.
The Knox Asset Intelligence agent application allows end users to view the status of their devices,
monitor app, battery, and network diagnostic information,
and send error reports back to their IT admins for further troubleshooting.
By tapping anywhere in the Device status field,
users can view device information like firmware and OS version, security patch levels,
available storage and memory, and more.
To view app, battery, or network diagnostic information, tap any button in the Diagnostics field.
In our example, let's tap Apps to take a look at our device's app diagnostic information.
On the following screen, we can see helpful information like
the top 5 apps with the highest battery or network consumption,
as well as any apps which reported events like App Not Responding,
Force Close, or Abnormal behavior.
From here, if we want to send an error report back to the IT admin for further troubleshooting,
we can tap Error report in the top right corner of the screen.
The Error reports screen will pre-populate with App in the header field.
Provide additional details about the error in the text field below, then tap Send.
You can also send an error report from the app's home screen by tapping
"Send error report" and selecting an error category.
This wraps up our video on troubleshooting device issues with Knox Asset Intelligence.
To learn more about the features covered in this video,
please review our Knox Asset Intelligence documentation at docs.samsungknox.com.
Thanks for watching.